doc/source/debugging.rst, before:

Debugging
=========

In case you need to track configuration issues to understand why a system suspends or does not, the extensive logging output of |project_program| might be used.
The command line flag :option:`autosuspend -l` allows to specify a Python logging configuration file which specifies what to log.
The provided `systemd`_ service files (see :ref:`systemd-integration`) already use :file:`/etc/autosuspend-logging.conf` as the standard location and a default file is usually installed.
Each iteration logs exactly which condition detected activity or not.
So you should be able to find out what is going on.

In case one of the conditions you monitor prevents suspending the system if an external connection is established (logged-in users, open TCP port), then the logging configuration file can be changed to use the `broadcast-logging`_ package.
This way, the server will broadcast new log messages on the network and external clients on the same network can listen to these messages without creating an explicit connection.
Please refer to the documentation of the `broadcast-logging`_ package on how to enable and use it.
Additionally, one might also examine the ``journalctl`` for |project_program| after the fact.

Commit message:

Prepare command line parser for subcommands
Adds subcommands to the command line parser and moves the existing
behavior to the `daemon` subcommand.

As the existing -l flag creates parsing issues in case it shall be used
as a boolean flag before a subcommand, logging configuration was split
into two distinct flags.

* data/autosuspend.service: reflect changed cli interface
* doc/source/changelog.rst:
  mention subcommands and changed logging flags
* doc/source/debugging.rst: adapt to new logging flags
* doc/source/man_command.rst: adapt to new command line interface
* src/autosuspend/__init__.py: add subcommands and change logging flags
* tests/test_autosuspend.py:
  reflect changed interface of configure_logging
* tests/test_integration.py: reflect changed command line interface
* tox.ini: reflect change cli interface for mindep test

doc/source/debugging.rst, after:

Debugging
=========

In case you need to track configuration issues to understand why a system suspends or does not, the extensive logging output of |project_program| might be used.
Each iteration of the daemon logs exactly which condition detected activity or not.
So you should be able to find out what is going on.
The command line flag :option:`autosuspend -l` allows specifying a Python logging configuration file which specifies what to log.
The provided `systemd`_ service files (see :ref:`systemd-integration`) already use :file:`/etc/autosuspend-logging.conf` as the standard location and a default file is usually installed.
If you launch |project_program| manually from the console, the command line flag :option:`autosuspend -d` might also be used to get full logging to the console instead.

In case one of the conditions you monitor prevents suspending the system if an external connection is established (logged-in users, open TCP port), then the logging configuration file can be changed to use the `broadcast-logging`_ package.
This way, the server will broadcast new log messages on the network and external clients on the same network can listen to these messages without creating an explicit connection.
Please refer to the documentation of the `broadcast-logging`_ package on how to enable and use it.
Additionally, one might also examine the ``journalctl`` for |project_program| after the fact.
